Almost 4,800 people were inoculated against COVID-19 in Vietnam on Saturday, bringing the total number past 10,000 so far, the Ministry of Health said on Sunday morning.

Those vaccinated were medical staff directly treating coronavirus patients, healthcare workers in charge of sample collecting, contact tracing, and testing, and other frontline workers, the health ministry said in a report.

Vietnam has given the first AstraZeneca shot to 10,041 people, including 4,800 on Saturday, in 12 provinces and cities since rolling out the jab on Monday.

At least 12 people showed rather severe post-vaccination reactions and needed care in hospitals.

Health authorities estimated such reactions to amount to 26 percent of those vaccinated in the country, underlining the rate is in the “allowed range” similar to other types of immunization.

Vietnam is immunizing the population with its only vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford.

The nation received the first shipment of 117,600 AstraZeneca shots on February 24.

An additional 5.6 million AstraZeneca doses will arrive in Vietnam within March and April, the health ministry said.

The country expects to obtain 150 million doses for the whole population this year, with 60 million already secured from AstraZeneca and the COVAX Facility co-led by the World Health Organization.

Vietnam reported zero new COVID-19 cases on Sunday morning, with the national tally standing at 2,553 and recoveries at 2,086. Thirty-five patients have died so far, most suffering comorbid conditions.

The Southeast Asian country has recorded 901 community-based infections since a new wave hit it on January 27, including 717 in Hai Duong Province, 61 in Quang Ninh Province, 36 in Ho Chi Minh City, 35 in Hanoi, 27 in Gia Lai Province, six in Binh Duong Province, five in Bac Ninh Province, four in Hai Phong City, three in Dien Bien Province, two in Hoa Binh Province, two in Hung Yen Province, two in Bac Giang Province, and one in Ha Giang Province.
